Feat/machine-to-machine app client support (#561)
csg-org/CompactConnect: backend/compact-connect/app_clients/README.md

# App Client Management for Staff Users

## Overview

> This document outlines the process for managing Cognito app clients for machine-to-machine authentication in the Staff Users pool. All app clients must be documented in yaml files in the `/app_clients` directory for disaster recovery purposes. See the example app client for the format.

Reviewer: Can you say more about what you mean when you say "disaster recovery purposes"? I think it's perfectly reasonable to document clients in this directory, but I'm not sure I understand this reasoning.

> 

Reviewer: To clarify, I assume the audience of this document are IA or CSG staff? (Anyone with write permission to the codebase.)

## Creating a New App Client

### 1. Documentation Prerequisites
Before creating a new app client, ensure you have:
- Jurisdiction requirements documented
- Contact information for the consuming team

> - Approval for requested scopes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Approval to grant the app client with the requested scopes
```

> - Update access to the Staff Users user pool for the needed AWS accounts

Reviewer: What does this mean?

Author: I've updated this line to make it more clear the user needs AWS CLI access to perform the action.

   ```

   Currently, the most common scope needed by app clients is the `{jurisdiction}/{compact}.write` scope. This scope allows the app client to upload license data for a jurisdiction/compact combination.

### 3. Create App Client in AWS Using CLI
   To create an app client with the needed OAuth scopes configured, you will use the AWS CLI. After logging into the correct AWS account for the us-east-1 region, run the following cli command (for the OAuth scopes, you will put whatever scopes are documented in the yaml file, the following is an example of the format used to define the scopes):
   ```
   aws cognito-idp create-user-pool-client --user-pool-id '<staff users's user pool id>' \
   --client-name '<name of client you set in the yaml file, it should include a version suffix for rotation, e.g. "example-ky-app-client-v1">'\
   --prevent-user-existence-errors ENABLED \
   --generate-secret \
   --token-validity-units AccessToken='minutes'\
   --access-token-validity 15 \
   --allowed-o-auth-flows-user-pool-client \
   --allowed-o-auth-flows 'client_credentials' \
   --allowed-o-auth-scopes '<compact>/readGeneral' '<jurisdiction>/<compact>.write'
   ```

>    It is important to note that generated access tokens will expire after 15 minutes, so the consuming team will need to have application logic to generate a new access token before it expires (this time can be adjusted according to the needs of the consuming team by updating the access token validity in the cli command).

Reviewer: It took me a while to understand what I think is true: This command generates a client, not an access token, that has the ability to _produce_ access tokens with 15 minute lifespans. Can you create a client that can generate tokens with _no_ expiration, or does AWS disallow that?

If that's right, perhaps we can clarify this sentence (just a draft below – feel free to rewrite).
```suggestion
   This command creates an app client with the ability to generate access tokens that expire after 15 minutes. AWS requires that this field is specified when creating an app client, but the value can be adjusted according to the needs of the consuming team. (Or, "Although AWS allows you to create an app client that can generate app tokens with no expiration date, we do not recommend this because...") Regardless, the consuming team will need to have application logic to generate new access tokens on a regular basis.
```

   If the consuming team plans to use both the test and production environments, you will need to create two separate app clients, one in each respective AWS accounts for those environments.

### 4. **Send Credentials to Consuming Team**
   - The client_id and client_secret will be needed by the consuming team to authenticate with the API. This information is returned in the response of the cli command.
   ```
   {
   "UserPoolClient": {
        "ClientId": "6g34example89j",
        "ClientSecret": "1234example567890",
        ...
        }
   }
   ```

   These credentials should be securely transmitted to the consuming team via a encrypted channel. You will also need to provide them with the user pool domain for the Staff Users user pool, which can be determined using the following cli command.
   ```
   aws cognito-idp describe-user-pool --user-pool-id '<user pool id>' --query 'UserPool.Domain' --output text
   ```

>    If the team has questions about generating access tokens, refer them to Amazon's [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/token-endpoint.html). You can also give them the following curl example for generating an access token (Instruct them to replace the `<user pool domain>`, `<client id>`, `<client secret>` with the values you send them. The `<jurisdiction>` and `<compact>` scope values should be the jurisdiction postal code and compact abbreviation they are requesting access to such as `ky` for Kentucky and `aslp` for the ASLP compact).

Reviewer: Are state abbreviations considered "postal codes"?

   ```
    curl --location --request POST 'https://<user pool domain>.auth.us-east-1.amazoncognito.com/oauth2/token?grant_type=client_credentials&client_id=<client id>&client_secret=<client secret>&scope=<jurisdiction>%2F<compact>.write' \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
    --header 'Accept: application/json'
   ```

## Rotating App Client Credentials

> Unfortunately, AWS Cognito does not support rotating app client credentials for an existing app client. The only way to rotate credentials is to create a new app client with a new clientId and clientSecret and then delete the old one.

Reviewer: Can you provide some guidance here as to why this might be done, how often it should be done, etc.?

Author: This is a great question which is challenging to put a specific timeframe on. Obviously the longer an app client secret is in existence the greater the chance that it can be compromised. Typically I've seen companies rotate credentials such as these anywhere from a quarterly basis to annual. For now, I can mention that it should be performed in the event of a compromised secret, which is the main use case for this section.

Reviewer: That sounds great.
